Title: K-Forcing: Joint Next-K-Token Decoding via Push-Forward Language Modeling

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.10820v1

Published Time: Wed, 10 Jun 2026 01:01:09 GMT

Number of Pages: 26

Markdown Content:
# K-Forcing: Joint Next-K-Token Decoding via Push-Forward Language Modeling 

Zhiwei Tang 1,2,3,∗, Yuanyu He 3,∗, Yizheng Han 1, Wangbo Zhao 4, Jiasheng Tang 1,2, Fan Wang 1, Bohan Zhuang 1,31DAMO Academy, Alibaba Group 2Hupan Lab 3Zhejiang University 4The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology 

> ∗

Equal contribution 

Autoregressive (AR) language modeling is the dominant paradigm for text generation, yet its sequen-tial token-by-token decoding makes inference memory-bound and inefficient. Existing acceleration approaches, such as speculative decoding and diffusion language models, can yield speedups under certain conditions but do not directly address high-load batch serving —the scenario most critical for industrial-scale deployment. We introduce K-Forcing , a push-forward language modeling paradigm for 

joint next-k-token decoding . K-Forcing distills an existing AR model into a conditional push-forward mapping—one that transforms independent uniform noise variables into a joint sample of multiple future tokens in a single forward pass. This design preserves fixed-length outputs, reuses the AR teacher backbone, and remains compatible with standard AR serving infrastructure. We train this mapping via progressive self-forcing distillation , which gradually expands the prediction window while enabling the student to closely match the sequence distribution of the AR teacher. We evaluate K-Forcing on LM1B and OpenWebText using a standard causal Transformer backbone. When aggressively configured to generate k = 4 tokens per forward pass, K-Forcing delivers approximately 2.4–3.5×

speedup across different batch sizes, while incurring modest quality degradation relative to its AR teacher. As inference increasingly dominates the lifetime compute cost of modern LLMs, K-Forcing offers a promising route toward accelerating AR generation under real-world high-load deployment.  

> Email:

mcstzw@gmail.com, bohan.zhuang@gmail.com  

> Code:

https://github.com/alibaba-damo-academy/K-Forcing 

# 1 Introduction 

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities across a wide range of tasks (Hurst et al., 2024; Guo et al., 2025; Jimenez et al., 2023), driven largely by autoregressive (AR) language modeling (Sutskever et al., 2014; Radford et al., 2018; Brown et al., 2020) with Transformer architectures (Vaswani et al., 2017). AR models represent sequence distributions by factorizing them into a chain of conditional distributions and generating tokens one at a time. Although expressive and effective, this strictly sequential decoding creates a fundamental efficiency bottleneck: generating an L-token sequence requires L forward passes, each loading model weights and accessing a growing key-value (KV) cache from GPU memory. Because single-token decoding has low arithmetic intensity, inference is largely memory-bound , leaving modern accelerators underutilized (Kwon et al., 2023). As LLM inference demand grows rapidly, high-throughput and low-latency serving has become an urgent economic necessity. This bottleneck has been addressed at several orthogonal levels. Serving-system techniques such as prefill– decoding disaggregation (Zhong et al., 2024) and paged attention (Kwon et al., 2023) improve hardware utilization and memory management in large-batch serving. Kernel-level methods and inference libraries such as FlashAttention (Dao et al., 2022) and FlashInfer (Ye et al., 2025b) reduce attention cost, while architectural designs such as state-space models (Gu and Dao, 2024; Yang et al., 2025) and sparse attention (Yuan et al., 2025) reduce the per-step computation or memory footprint. However, these approaches mainly improve each decoding step or the serving system around it; they largely preserve the AR sampling structure, where each forward pass advances generation by only one token. 1 

> arXiv:2606.10820v1 [cs.LG] 9 Jun 2026 parallel
> Verify Model
> Draft Model
> Accept Reject

(c) Speculative Decoding 

> Marginal distribution
> parallel
> Diffusion Language Model

(d) MDLM 

> [MASK]
> next -token prediction

(a) K -Forcing (Ours)  

> Push -Forward L. Model
> Uniform Noise
> Joint distribution
> i.i.d.
> parallel
> Autoregressive L. Model

(b) AR                 

> context
> Noise token Masked token Draft token Text token Figure 1 Comparison of four language-model inference paradigms within one NFE (number of forward evaluations).
> (a) K-Forcing (ours) uses a push-forward language model to map i.i.d. uniform noise tokens to a fixed-length block of future tokens, modeling their joint distribution. (b) AR predicts one next token from the current context, leading to memory-bound decoding. (c) Speculative decoding drafts a token block and verifies it with the target AR model, yielding a variable number of accepted tokens that breaks regular batching. (d) MDLM predicts masked positions in parallel from per-position marginals , rather than their joint distribution.

At the statistical modeling level —how the sequence distribution is parameterized and sampled—there has been comparatively less progress in improving high-load batch-serving throughput. Since the core bottleneck is that each forward pass generates only one token, a natural remedy is to generate multiple future tokens per pass, amortizing memory-access cost across several outputs. The closest lines of work are draft-then-verify 

methods (Chen et al., 2023; Sun et al., 2023; Li et al., 2024; Kou et al., 2024; Draxler et al., 2025; Kumar et al., 2026) and diffusion language models (Austin et al., 2021; Lou et al., 2024; Sahoo et al., 2024; Nie et al., 2025; Ye et al., 2025a). Draft-then-verify methods are lossless in principle but mainly reduce single-request 

latency; their variable-length accepted outputs disrupt regular batching and can even hurt throughput under heavy load (Kumar et al., 2026; Liu et al., 2026). Diffusion language models decode multiple tokens through iterative denoising, but their factorized marginal sampling often requires many refinement steps to preserve quality (Sahoo et al., 2024; Nie et al., 2025), limiting the reduction in forward passes over AR. To address this gap, we propose K-Forcing , a push-forward language modeling paradigm for fixed-length joint next-k-token decoding . K-Forcing learns a conditional push-forward mapping from a pretrained AR teacher to generate a joint sample of k future tokens in one forward pass, hence preserving regular batching. Our contributions are: 

• We analyze why existing modeling-level acceleration methods struggle in batch serving. Draft-then-verify methods produce variable-length outputs that disrupt regular batching, while diffusion language models reveal multiple tokens by sampling per-position marginals rather than their joint conditional distribution. This motivates the two design principles behind K-Forcing: fixed-length outputs and joint multi-token sampling. 

• We formulate K-Forcing as an implicit push-forward generative model for joint multi-token sampling. We then introduce progressive self-forcing distillation to learn the push-forward mapping from a pretrained AR teacher, and design a fully causal architecture that reuses the AR backbone while remaining compatible with standard AR serving infrastructure. 

• On LM1B and OpenWebText, K-Forcing can generate up to 4 tokens per forward pass and achieves substantial throughput improvements across low-, medium-, and high-load batch regimes, with speedups of up to approximately 3× at modest quality degradation relative to its AR teacher. Generating fewer tokens per pass provides a smooth, tunable quality–speed trade-off. To our knowledge, this is the first empirical demonstration that a statistical-modeling change alone can yield substantial batch-serving throughput gains 2over AR decoding. 

# 2 Why Existing Approaches Struggle in Batch Serving 

We analyze two major families of modeling-level approaches to accelerating AR inference—draft-then-verify methods and diffusion language models—and identify the challenges they face in improving throughput under high-load batch-serving settings. 

2.1 Draft-then-Verify Methods 

Draft-then-verify methods, most prominently speculative decoding (Chen et al., 2023), accelerate AR inference by using a lightweight draft model to propose multiple candidate tokens, which are then verified in parallel by the target model. Because verification uses rejection sampling against the target distribution, these methods are lossless in principle. The key challenge is to make the draft mechanism both accurate and cheap. Representative approaches include feature-level drafting (EAGLE (Li et al., 2024)), auxiliary multi-token heads attached to the target model (Medusa (Cai et al., 2024); Hydra (Ankner et al., 2024)), and noise-to-sequence mappings that better match the joint multi-token distribution for higher acceptance rates (Draxler et al., 2025). Speculative decoding has proven effective at reducing single-request latency in interactive, low-batch settings, but its variable-length acceptance pattern poses a fundamental challenge for throughput-bound batch serving . As Zhang et al. (2025) describe, the ragged tensor problem arises because the number of accepted tokens ai varies across requests, desynchronizing position IDs, attention masks, and KV-cache states. The system must then either pad to the maximum accepted length, wasting compute, or perform cross-batch realignment (Zhang et al., 2025), whose overhead grows with batch size. Under high serving load, this issue becomes more pronounced: drafting and verification add extra forward passes, while variable accepted lengths prevent a proportional reduction in synchronized decoding steps. Liu et al. (2026) systematically evaluate speculative decoding on a production-grade inference engine and confirm that speedups degrade consistently as batch size grows, because verification of rejected tokens dominates execution time. As they and Kumar et al. (2026) conclude, speculative decoding is often ineffective under compute-bound scenarios with large batch sizes, where throughput gains can be marginal or even negative. 

2.2 Diffusion Language Models and Multi-Token Prediction 

Diffusion language models (DLMs) (Austin et al., 2021; Lou et al., 2024; Sahoo et al., 2024; Nie et al., 2025; Arriola et al., 2025) have emerged as a promising alternative to AR language models. Among existing formulations, Masked Diffusion Language Models (MDLMs) (Sahoo et al., 2024; Nie et al., 2025) offer a clean framework for discrete diffusion over text; we briefly summarize their training objective and inference procedure below.  

> Training.

MDLM defines a forward process that independently masks each token in a clean length-L sequence 

x0 with probability t ∈ [0 , 1] , producing a partially masked sequence xt. A mask predictor pθ (· | xt),parameterized by a bidirectional Transformer, is trained to recover all masked tokens via a cross-entropy loss computed only on the masked positions: 

L(θ) ≜ −Et, x 0, x t

"

1

t

> L

X

> i=1

1[xit = M] log pθ (xi 

> 0

| xt)

#

. (1)  

> Inference.

Starting from a fully masked sequence at t = 1 , the generation process is discretized into T

steps with schedule 1 = tT > t T −1 > · · · > t 0 = 0 . At each step from t to s < t , the mask predictor predicts all masked tokens in parallel, and a fraction s/t of the predicted tokens are remasked to obtain xs,ensuring consistency with the forward process. In practice, works such as LLaDA (Nie et al., 2025) often use confidence-sorted decoding, retaining the highest-confidence predictions at each step. The number of steps T

controls the quality–efficiency trade-off. 3Despite the appeal of parallel prediction, MDLMs face a fundamental limitation that directly constrains their ability to reduce NFEs (number of forward passes). Because the objective in (1) trains per-position marginal 

predictors, unmasking multiple positions simultaneously samples them independently rather than from their joint conditional distribution. This means that to preserve the target distribution, MDLMs must still unmask tokens essentially one at a time—yielding no reduction in NFEs over AR decoding. We formalize this below. 

Theorem 1 (NFE lower bound for lossless sampling from MDLMs) . Let p be the target data distribution of the clean sequence x0 in (1) , supported on (x1, . . . , x L) ∈ V L. Suppose p is conditionally irreducible :for any subset S with |S| ≥ 2, any nontrivial partition S = S1 ⊔ S2, and any x ¯S with p(x ¯S ) > 0, we have 

p(xS | x ¯S )̸ = p(xS1 | x ¯S )p(xS2 | x ¯S ), where ¯S is the complement of S. Then, even with a Bayes-optimal MDLM mask predictor, i.e., an optimal solution to (1) , unmasking K > 1 tokens in parallel with the model yields a distribution different from p. Hence, lossless MDLM sampling requires at least L NFEs, i.e., one token per NFE. 

We remark that Theorem 1 does not contradict Jiang et al. (2025), who show that MDLMs can reduce NFE relative to AR for conditionally reducible distributions. Moreover, Nie et al. (2025) show that masked-diffusion language models can achieve reasonable quality with fewer than L NFEs in practice, suggesting that text data in certain domains exhibits partial conditional reducibility. The point of Theorem 1 is to give a worst-case 

limitation of MDLM-style marginal unmasking: because the sampler cannot know a priori which positions are conditionally independent, unmasking multiple tokens per NFE can deviate from the target joint distribution. We provide the proof and an illustrative example in Appendix A.  

> Connection to MTP.

This marginal-sampling issue is not unique to MDLMs. Standard multi-token prediction (MTP) methods (Liu et al., 2024; Gloeckle et al., 2024) face the same problem: they train auxiliary heads to predict several future tokens from the same prefix, but the predictions are separate per-position marginals rather than a joint sample from the future-token block. Consequently, MTP heads are typically useful as auxiliary training signals but are discarded at inference, where generation remains autoregressive. Thus, both MDLMs and standard MTP expose the same core limitation: parallel prediction alone does not provide a reliable joint multi-token sampler. 

In summary, our analysis identifies two requirements for modeling-level batch-serving acceleration: 1. Fixed-length outputs per forward pass, to preserve batching regularity; 2. Joint multi-token sampling , to avoid the degradation caused by independent marginals. We next introduce K-Forcing, a paradigm designed to satisfy both requirements. 

# 3 Learning Push-Forward Language Model with K-Forcing 

The requirements of fixed-length outputs and joint multi-token sampling raise a central question: how can we build a generative model that produces a joint sample of k discrete tokens in a single NFE? 

Explicitly modeling this joint distribution is impractical. Given a vocabulary V, an AR model represents the next-token distribution p(xt+1 | x≤t) with a |V| -dimensional logit vector. Extending this representation to the joint distribution of the next k tokens, p(xt+1 , . . . , x t+k | x≤t), would require a table over |V| k outcomes, which is prohibitively large even for k=2 .A viable alternative, inspired by implicit generative models such as GANs (Goodfellow et al., 2020) and diffusion-style generators (Song et al., 2021, 2023), is to learn a push-forward mapping that transforms simple noise into joint token samples. Specifically, if a noise vector z is drawn from an easy-to-sample base distribution μ and G is a deterministic map, then the distribution of G(z) is the push-forward of μ by G,denoted G#μ (Peyré and Cuturi, 2019). Learning such a model means learning G so that G(z) follows the desired target distribution. We instantiate this idea for language modeling and call the resulting framework K-Forcing : it learns a push-forward language model that maps k noise variables to the next k tokens in a single forward pass. 43.1 Formulation of Push-Forward Language Model 

A push-forward language model (PFLM) with prediction window k implicitly defines the joint conditional distribution over the next k tokens through a deterministic map Gθ : Vt × [0 , 1] k → V k. Given a context x≤t

and k i.i.d. noise variables z = ( z1, . . . , z k) with zi ∼ Uniform (0 , 1) , the map produces k future tokens in one shot: Gθ (x≤t, z) = ( ˆxt+1 , . . . , ˆxt+k). Unlike an AR language model, PFLM does not explicitly enumerate the joint likelihood over Vk; instead, one samples from the joint distribution by drawing z and evaluating Gθ . 

> Existence of a push-forward mapping.

Given access to an autoregressive oracle of the target distribution 

p(x), e.g., a well-trained AR model, one can construct a closed-form push-forward mapping G⋆ that maps k

independent uniform noise variables to a joint sample of the next k tokens. Let qAR (· | x≤t) denote the oracle’s next-token distribution given context x≤t, and let FAR (v | x≤t) = P 

> v′≤v

qAR (v′ | x≤t) be its cumulative distribution function (CDF). The inverse CDF (quantile function) F −1AR (· | x≤t) maps a uniform random variable z ∼ U [0 , 1) to a token v such that F −1AR (z | x≤t) = min {v : FAR (v | x≤t) ≥ z}. Given the noise vector 

z, we recursively generate the next k tokens as 

ˆxt+j = F −1AR 

 zj | x≤t, ˆxt+1: t+j−1

, j = 1 , . . . , k. (2) Unrolling this recursion gives the closed-form map G⋆(x≤t, z) = ( ˆxt+1 , . . . , ˆxt+k). This shows that the PFLM formulation is expressive enough, in principle, to reproduce the joint conditional distribution of an AR teacher without explicitly parameterizing the |V| k joint probability table. For completeness, we provide a rigorous analysis showing that (2) is equivalent to AR sampling, together with an illustrative example, in Appendix B.  

> Comparison with existing inference paradigms.

Figure 1 summarizes the contrast between K-Forcing, which trains a PFLM, and existing paradigms within a single NFE. AR advances one token at a time, speculative decoding yields variable-length accepted outputs, and MDLM samples multiple positions from per-position marginals. In contrast, K-Forcing uses PFLM to map i.i.d. noise to a fixed-length joint sample of k future tokens. 

3.2 Supervision Strategy 

We have shown that a closed-form push-forward mapping can be obtained by unrolling the AR sampling process in (2) . Therefore, a natural way to learn such a map in practice is distillation : we use the AR teacher to construct supervised noise–token pairs (z, ˆx), where each noise vector z is paired with a teacher-generated token block ˆx. The PFLM student is then trained to match this mapping by minimizing the discrepancy between its prediction Gθ (x≤t, z) and the teacher target ˆx.For each training position t ∈ T , let z(t) = ( z(t)1 , . . . , z (t) 

> k

) denote the noise vector associated with context x≤t.We parameterize the student to produce categorical distributions pθ,j (· | x≤t, z(t)) for j = 1 , . . . , k , where each distribution predicts the j-th future token. These distributions parameterize the map Gθ : at inference time, the j-th output token is obtained by greedy decoding from pθ,j (· | x≤t, z(t)). In this way, we can train the student with the next-k-token prediction loss , using the standard negative log-likelihood (NLL) averaged over all training positions in T and future offsets: 

LPFLM (θ) = − 1

|T | k

X

> t∈T
> k

X

> j=1

log pθ,j 

 ˆxt+j | x≤t, z(t). (3) Importantly, under the inverse-CDF construction in (2) , the teacher-generated target block ˆx is deterministic once the context x≤t and noise vector z(t) are fixed. Therefore, if the noise–token pairs are constructed ideally and the student has sufficient capacity, the next-k-token prediction loss in (3) can in principle be minimized arbitrarily small. The key question is therefore: how can we construct noise–token pairs (z, ˆx) from an AR teacher as ideally as possible? 

53.2.1 Baseline: Noise Inversion 

A natural baseline is noise inversion , proposed by Draxler et al. (2025) to train a noise-conditioned multi-token drafter for speculative decoding. Given a real-data sequence (x1, . . . , x T ), noise inversion recovers, for each token xt+1 , a noise value z∗ 

> t

∈ [0 , 1] that would generate this token under inverse-CDF sampling from the AR teacher. Specifically, let the CDF bin of token xt+1 be [lt, u t), where lt = P 

> v<x t+1

qAR (v | x≤t) and 

ut = lt + qAR (xt+1 | x≤t). Noise inversion samples z∗ 

> t

∼ Uniform (lt, u t), so applying the teacher’s inverse-CDF sampler to z∗ 

> t

recovers xt+1 . In this way, a single AR teacher forward pass over the real-data sequence constructs paired noise–token examples (z∗ 

> t

, x t+1 ) for all positions t, making noise inversion convenient and efficient. Although simple, noise inversion has two critical limitations:  

> Train–inference mismatch.

The recovered noise is uniform only when the target tokens are sampled from the AR teacher. With real training data, tokens may lie in low-probability regions of the teacher distribution, so the inverted noise concentrates near the edges of narrow CDF bins rather than spreading uniformly over 

[0 , 1] . Since the PFLM student receives genuinely uniform noise at inference time, this creates a systematic train–inference mismatch that degrades generation quality.  

> Numerical fragility.

A more serious issue is that noise inversion is numerically fragile. For low-probability tokens, the corresponding CDF bin [lt, u t) is extremely narrow, meaning that even tiny perturbations in the teacher logits or in the cumulative sum used to compute CDF boundaries can shift the recovered noise into an adjacent bin, producing a different token entirely. Such perturbations are difficult to avoid in modern GPU execution: cuBLAS does not guarantee bitwise reproducibility across different batch sizes (DeepSeek-AI, 2026), and attention kernels may use non-deterministic floating-point accumulation orders (He and Lab, 2025; DeepSeek-AI, 2026). In practice, we observe that reapplying inverse-CDF sampling to the inverted noise often fails to recover the original token, confirming that the round-trip is not reliably invertible. These issues explain why Draxler et al. (2025) rely on speculative verification to filter incorrect predictions; consequently, their method inherits the variable-length decoding and irregular batching challenges of draft-then-verify approaches.  

> 3.2.2 K-Forcing: Progressive Self-Forcing Distillation

To address the limitations of noise inversion, we propose K-Forcing, which trains PFLM via progressive self-forcing distillation . This approach is inspired by self-forcing techniques for training autoregressive video diffusion models (Huang et al., 2025), which perform autoregressive self-rollout for causal video models during training so that the model learns from its own predictions rather than ground-truth context.  

> Stage 1: Forward Distillation (AR

→ PFLM( k = 1 )). Rather than inverting ground-truth tokens back into noise, we run the AR teacher forward . For each context x≤t, we sample z ∼ Uniform (0 , 1) and use the teacher’s inverse-CDF sampler to generate ˆxt+1 = F −1AR (z | x≤t). The PFLM( k= 1) student is trained to predict ˆxt+1 

from (x≤t, z ). This construction removes the train–inference mismatch because the noise is uniform by construction, and avoids recovering noise from narrow CDF bins. We use this forward distillation stage only to bootstrap a reliable PFLM with k=1 .

> Stage 2: Self-forcing Distillation (PFLM(

k) → PFLM( 2k)). Once a PFLM with window k is trained, we use it as the teacher to distill a new PFLM student with window 2k. Given context x≤t and noise z = ( z1, . . . , z 2k), the PFLM( k) teacher first generates ( ˆxt+1 , . . . , ˆxt+k) in one forward pass using (z1, . . . , z k). In a second forward pass, it conditions on the extended context (x≤t, ˆxt+1 , . . . , ˆxt+k) and the remaining noise (zk+1 , . . . , z 2k) to generate ( ˆxt+k+1 , . . . , ˆxt+2 k). The PFLM( 2k) student is then trained with the full noise vector z as input and the concatenated sequence (ˆ xt+1 , . . . , ˆxt+2 k) as its target.  

> Progressive window expansion.

Stage 2 is applied repeatedly: starting from the bootstrapped PFLM( k=1), we run self-forcing distillation with k = 1 → 2 → 4, progressively doubling the prediction window at each stage. This enables K-Forcing to scale to large k while maintaining stable supervision throughout the distillation chain. Unlike noise inversion, self-forcing directly addresses both limitations identified above. First, because the noise is always sampled from Uniform (0 , 1) and never inverted from real data, there is no train–inference distribution mismatch. More importantly, self-forcing greatly alleviates numerical fragility after the bootstrap 6stage: the teacher maps noise to tokens through its learned push-forward network without requiring inversion through narrow CDF bins, so the supervision is robust to floating-point non-determinism. Context tokens Noise tokens    

> Token Embedder Noise Encoder
> Causal Transformer Model
> concat
> Output
> Head 1
> Output
> Head 2
> Output
> Head 3
> Output
> Head 4

(a) Standard MTP Architecture     

> Causal Mask
> Context tokens Noise tokens
> Token Embedder Noise Encoder
> Causal Transformer Model
> Output Head

(b) Fully Causal Architecture    

> Causal Mask
> Inherited from AR Teacher backbone Newly added for K-Forcin g
> Figure 2 (a) Standard MTP

: k noise variables are concatenated into one token; k independent heads decode future tokens from its hidden state. (b) Fully causal : each noise variable forms a separate token under causal attention and is decoded by a shared head. Both reuse the AR backbone with a sinusoidal+MLP noise encoder. 

3.3 Architecture Design 

We consider two architectures for parameterizing the push-forward mapping Gθ , as illustrated in Figure 2. Both designs reuse the pretrained AR backbone and inject noise through a sinusoidal+MLP encoder, differing only in how noise variables are organized within the sequence.  

> Standard MTP architecture.

As a natural baseline, we extend the standard MTP-style architecture (Liu et al., 2024; Gloeckle et al., 2024) by concatenating all k noise variables into a single noise-conditioning token. From the hidden state of this token, k independent prediction heads decode the future tokens in parallel. This approach is simple to implement, requiring only a noise encoder and k independent prediction heads on top of the shared backbone.  

> Fully causal architecture.

We instead propose a fully causal architecture that represents each noise variable as a separate token under causal attention, decoded by a shared prediction head. This design mirrors the inverse-CDF construction in (2) : the j-th future token depends only on the context and prefix noise variables 

(z1, . . . , z j ), not on future noise (zj+1 , . . . , z k). Each future token is thus conditioned on its own dedicated noise variable, avoiding the information bottleneck of routing all k stochastic decisions through a single shared latent. This causal structure provides a natural inductive bias for learning the push-forward mapping and allows the model to reuse the AR backbone without additional MTP heads. 

3.4 Practical Considerations  

> Compatibility with AR serving infrastructure.

K-Forcing preserves the fixed-length, synchronized structure required by KV-cache reuse and continuous batching. The inference procedure mirrors standard AR KV-cache decoding: at each step, the model consumes a fixed number of input tokens, produces exactly k output tokens, 7and appends their KV entries to the cache. This regular, fixed-stride structure ensures that all requests in a batch remain synchronized in position indices and cache lengths, making the scheme directly compatible with continuous batching schedulers without cross-request realignment or padding. The prediction window can also be varied at inference time, using any k ≤ ktrain , to trade off speed and quality without retraining. We provide the full inference algorithm in Appendix C.1.  

> Training cost.

The main training cost comes from self-forcing distillation, which requires two sequential teacher forward passes per context position to produce the 2k-token targets, plus one student forward pass. To implement this efficiently, each of the two consecutive teacher passes is realized as a batched attention call with structured attention masks that encode the causal dependencies between context, predicted, and noise tokens within a single forward pass. Theoretically, these masks are block-sparse with O(k) non-zero entries relative to standard AR attention when N ≫ k, so training costs O(k)× a single AR forward pass. However, our current implementation does not yet exploit this sparsity and passes the masks as dense matrices to FlashAttention (Dao, 2024), resulting in O(k2)× AR cost in practice. Developing custom kernels that exploit the block-sparse structure of the masks to close this gap is left for future work; we discuss the required design in Appendix C.2.  

> Temperature-controlled generation.

K-Forcing can be extended to support temperature control by augmenting the mapping as Gθ (x≤t, z, τ ). During training, a temperature τ is sampled uniformly from [τmin , τ max ] and used both to sharpen or flatten the teacher output distribution and to condition the noise encoder, which learns to associate different τ values with different diversity levels. At inference, varying τ smoothly interpolates between near-greedy outputs (low τ ) and diverse samples (high τ )—no retraining or model modification is required. We detail this extension in Appendix C.2. 

# 4 Experiments 

We evaluate K-Forcing through three main experiments: its quality–throughput trade-off in batch serving (Section 4.1), ablations of the supervision strategy and architecture design (Section 4.2), and a quality– NFE comparison with existing language-model inference paradigms (Section 4.3). Additional results on temperature-controlled generation are provided in Appendix D.4.  

> Datasets and architecture.

We evaluate K-Forcing on two standard language modeling benchmarks, LM1B (Chelba et al., 2013) and OpenWebText (OWT) (Gokaslan et al., 2019). Our setup largely follows MDLM (Sahoo et al., 2024): we use the same dataset preprocessing, tokenizers, context lengths, and Transformer backbone. Specifically, the context length is 128 for LM1B and 1,024 for OWT, and all models use the same 12-layer, ∼100M-parameter Transformer backbone. For the AR teacher, we use the AR checkpoint on OWT released by (Sahoo et al., 2024), trained for 1M steps with batch size 512, and train our own AR teacher on LM1B for 500K steps with the same batch size. Remaining hyperparameters and implementation details are provided in Appendix D.1.  

> K-Forcing training.

By default, K-Forcing trains a PFLM with the fully causal architecture using progressive self-forcing distillation, following the sequence AR → PFLM( k= 1) → PFLM( k=2) → PFLM( k= 4). At each stage, the student is initialized from the previous-stage teacher and then trained on the same dataset for 500K steps with batch size 512. All training experiments are conducted on a single pod with 8 H100 GPUs. For distillation and sampling-based evaluation, we take the AR teacher distribution at temperature τ = 1 .0 as the target distribution. 

4.1 Joint Multi-Token Prediction for Batch Serving 

We first evaluate whether K-Forcing can produce an effective joint multi-token predictor. Since the resulting PFLM is trained to match the joint future-token distribution of its AR teacher, comparable generation quality to AR would indicate that the learned push-forward mapping captures the desired joint distribution. Using the default training recipe described above, we evaluate the final PFLM( k= 4) checkpoint at k ∈ { 2, 3, 4} by varying the number of input noise tokens at decoding time.  

> Inference protocol.

We evaluate batch-serving throughput on fixed-length completion tasks. For each dataset, we sample 1,024 held-out prefixes, completing 6-token prefixes to 128 tokens on LM1B and 64-token prefixes 8Table 1 Quality–throughput trade-off for K-Forcing on LM1B and OWT. K-Forcing( k) denotes decoding with k noise tokens from the PFLM( k= 4) checkpoint trained by K-Forcing. Throughput is reported in k tokens/s , with speedup over AR shown in parentheses. 

Quality Throughput (k tokens/s, speedup) Dataset Method Gen-PPL ↓ Win vs. AR ↑ BS=4 BS=16 BS=128 LM1B AR 104.8 – 0.54 ( 1.00 ×) 2.03 ( 1.00 ×) 15.4 ( 1.00 ×)K-Forcing ( k=2 ) 107.2 50.2% 0.84 ( 1.56 ×) 3.48 ( 1.71 ×) 24.7 ( 1.60 ×)K-Forcing ( k=3 ) 117.1 45.1% 1.27 ( 2.35 ×) 4.99 ( 2.46 ×) 35.6 ( 2.31 ×)K-Forcing ( k=4 ) 127.6 42.9% 1.69 ( 3.13 ×) 6.77 ( 3.33 ×) 46.5 ( 3.02 ×)OWT AR 42.64 – 0.53 ( 1.00 ×) 1.99 ( 1.00 ×) 9.61 ( 1.00 ×)K-Forcing ( k=2 ) 32.82 46.9% 0.85 ( 1.60 ×) 3.36 ( 1.69 ×) 11.9 ( 1.24 ×)K-Forcing ( k=3 ) 29.67 42.8% 1.28 ( 2.42 ×) 5.03 ( 2.53 ×) 17.5 ( 1.82 ×)K-Forcing ( k=4 ) 24.97 39.4% 1.70 ( 3.21 ×) 6.91 ( 3.47 ×) 22.9 ( 2.38 ×)to 1,024 tokens on OWT. Throughput is measured under bf16 precision for both AR and K-Forcing with KV-cache enabled, at batch sizes of 4, 16, and 128 on a single H100 GPU, corresponding to low-, medium-, and high-load regimes; the largest size saturates GPU utilization in our setup. We report the total number of 

generated tokens (including special tokens) divided by wall-clock decoding time, averaged over 5 runs after one warm-up. Attention is computed via the FlashAttention-v2 kernel (Dao, 2024).  

> Generation-quality metrics.

Since K-Forcing is an implicit sampler rather than an explicit likelihood model, we evaluate generation quality using sample-based metrics. First, we report generative perplexity (Gen-PPL), computed by scoring the generated completions with an external GPT-2-large evaluator (Radford et al., 2019). For LM1B, generated samples are re-tokenized before GPT-2-large scoring because of different tokenizers. To ensure fair quality assessment, we truncate each generated sequence at the first end-of-sequence token before computing the metrics. Second, we conduct an LLM-as-a-judge evaluation as an affordable proxy for human preference assessment. Using the same prefixes, we use a locally-served Qwen3.5-27B (Team, 2026) to perform pairwise comparisons between each truncated K-Forcing completion and the AR completion generated from the same prefix; we use a local model for full reproducibility. The judge is forced to choose one completion based on coherence, fluency, and naturalness, and we report the win rate of each K-Forcing variant against AR. The full judge prompt and evaluation protocol details are provided in Appendix D.2.  

> Results.

Table 1 shows that K-Forcing achieves large batch-serving speedups with moderate quality degradation relative to the AR teacher. K-Forcing( k=4) reaches roughly 3× speedup on LM1B and 2.4–3.5× speedup on OWT across different batch sizes, showing consistent gains from latency-bound to compute-bound regimes. Varying k yields a smooth quality–throughput trade-off: K-Forcing( k= 2) is nearly indistinguishable from AR (win rate 50 .2% on LM1B, 46 .9% on OWT) at ∼ 1.6× speedup, while K-Forcing( k= 3) sits in between at ∼ 2.4× with win rates above 42% . This lets practitioners pick k to match their latency–quality budget. The OWT Gen-PPL results also highlight why the LLM-as-a-judge metric matters: K-Forcing reports a 

lower Gen-PPL than the AR teacher, but this simply reflects GPT-2-large finding the push-forward sampler’s output more “typical”—not that K-Forcing actually surpasses the teacher. The pairwise judge, by directly comparing matched completions, gives a more reliable quality signal. Overall, K-Forcing offers a favorable, 

k-controllable quality–speed trade-off, making it an effective joint multi-token predictor for batch serving. 

4.2 Ablation Analysis 

We ablate the supervision strategy used to construct noise–token pairs (Section 3.2) and the architecture used to parameterize the push-forward mapping (Section 3.3).  

> Variants.

We compare three K-Forcing( k= 4) variants: (A) noise inversion + standard MTP, (B) noise inversion + fully causal, and (C) self-forcing distillation + fully causal. All variants are initialized from the same AR checkpoint for a fair comparison. For noise inversion, supervision is constructed from the AR teacher. For self-forcing distillation, supervision is generated by a well-trained K-Forcing( k=2 ) teacher. 9Table 2 Per-position validation NLL after 200K distillation steps for K-Forcing( k= 4). Lower is better. Variants: (A) noise inversion + standard MTP; (B) noise inversion + fully causal; and (C) self-forcing + fully causal. The AR row reports the converged AR teacher validation NLL. 

Dataset Variant L1 L2 L3 L4 Avg. LM1B AR 3.04 – – – –(A) 2.84 4.43 5.38 5.90 4.64 (B) 2.51 3.94 4.82 5.34 4.15 (C) 0.87 1.90 2.73 2.87 2.09 

OWT AR 2.86 – – – –(A) 2.27 4.31 5.73 6.10 4.60 (B) 1.87 3.56 4.52 4.95 3.73 (C) 0.39 2.05 2.82 2.92 2.05 Metric. We use per-position NLL on the validation sets of LM1B and OWT during the first 200K distillation steps to compare the variants. Specifically, for each future position j ∈ { 1, . . . , 4}, we define Lj (θ) = 

− P 

> t∈T

log pθ,j ( ˆxt+j | x≤t, z(t))/|T | , which is the j-th per-position component of the K-Forcing objective in (3) . This metric measures how accurately the learned push-forward mapping predicts the j-th future token given the prefix and input noise; lower values indicate that the student more faithfully recovers the underlying AR teacher’s noise-to-token mapping. We also report the final converged validation NLL of the AR teacher as a context-only next-token prediction reference. Achieving lower NLL than this AR reference suggests that, conditioned on both the context and input noise, a future token can be predicted nearly as accurately as the next token predicted by an AR model from context alone.    

> Figure 3 Training dynamics of K-Forcing on LM1B during the first 200K distillation steps. We plot per-position validation NLL for variants (B) and (C), together with the AR teacher reference line.
> Results.

Table 2 shows that the default K-Forcing design (C) achieves the lowest validation NLL on both datasets and across all prediction positions, improving over (A) and (B) by a large margin. The comparison between (A) and (B) indicates that the fully causal architecture improves performance under the same supervision strategy, suggesting that leveraging this inductive bias is helpful. Meanwhile, the significant gap between (B) and (C) highlights the importance of a precise teacher supervision signal. More importantly, (C) is the only variant that achieves lower validation NLL than the AR teacher reference at almost all positions after only 200K distillation steps. 10 Training dynamics of K-Forcing. Figure 3 shows that (C) converges much faster and to a lower validation NLL than both (A) and (B) , suggesting that stable self-forced teacher supervision also accelerates convergence. We also observe that Lj converges more slowly as j increases, suggesting that farther future positions are harder to learn. Even for the best variant (C) , however, the per-position NLL is not driven to zero at convergence, indicating that the learned push-forward mapping remains imperfect. This may be due in part to limited student capacity, since the current model scale is relatively small. A more plausible explanation is that the self-forced supervision signal is still imperfect, since batch-variant GPU kernel effects can still slightly perturb the K-Forcing teacher outputs. 

4.3 Comparison with Existing Inference Paradigms 

We further compare K-Forcing with the two modeling-level acceleration paradigms discussed in Section 2. We instantiate these paradigms with MDLM (Sahoo et al., 2024) and Medusa (Cai et al., 2024). Medusa performs speculative decoding using lightweight MTP heads attached to the AR model, making it a suitable baseline in our setting; stronger variants such as EAGLE (Li et al., 2024) and Hydra (Ankner et al., 2024) introduce additional autoregressive modules whose inference cost is non-negligible at our model scale. We also include PTP (Draxler et al., 2025), which is essentially equivalent to using variant (B) from Section 4.2 as the drafting model in speculative decoding. As discussed in Section 2, these paradigms have different serving structures, so raw batch-serving throughput is not a suitable metric for this comparison. We therefore compare them using the quality–NFE trade-off.  

> Comparison design.

To ensure a consistent comparison across paradigms, we keep all methods on the same Transformer backbone as AR and define NFE in a comparable way. For AR, MDLM, and K-Forcing, one NFE corresponds to a single model forward pass. For Medusa and PTP, each speculative decoding iteration requires two forward passes—one draft pass to propose candidate tokens and one target AR pass to verify them—so we report their NFE as 2× the number of speculative iterations (see Table 3). Note that this NFE definition is conservative for K-Forcing: an MDLM forward pass uses bidirectional attention, and both Medusa and PTP require separate draft and target-model computation, whereas K-Forcing uses a single causal forward pass to produce a fixed number of tokens.  

> Experiment setup.

We conduct this study on the OWT dataset using the same inference protocol as in Section 4.1: we sample 1024 held-out prefixes of 64 tokens, generate completions to length 1024, and evaluate generation quality with the same sample-based metrics, Gen-PPL and win rate against AR. For AR and K-Forcing, we use the same checkpoints and setup as in Section 4.1. For MDLM, we use the checkpoint released by (Sahoo et al., 2024) and reduce NFE by unmasking a fixed number of k tokens per forward pass, selecting the top-k positions by confidence after sampling at temperature τ = 1.0, following the practice in LLaDA (Nie et al., 2025). For Medusa, we attach k= 4 MTP heads to the AR backbone and train them on the same OWT training set for 500K steps with batch size 512. For PTP, we reuse the variant (B) checkpoint from Section 4.2 as the draft model.  

> Table 3 Quality–NFE trade-off on OWT. We report the number of forward evaluations (NFE) required to generate a 960-token completion, Gen-PPL (lower is better), and LLM-as-a-Judge Win rate against AR (higher is better). For speculative methods (Medusa, PTP), NFE counts both draft and verification passes.

Method NFE ↓ Gen-PPL ↓ Win vs. AR ↑

AR 960 42.64 –MDLM ( k=1 ) 960 65.17 42.4% MDLM ( k=2 ) 480 224.1 26.6% Medusa ( k=4 ) 2×539.3 44.21 50.3% PTP ( k=4 ) 2×339.2 41.98 49.6% K-Forcing ( k=2 ) 480 32.82 46.9% K-Forcing ( k=3 ) 320 29.67 42.8% K-Forcing ( k=4 ) 240 24.97 39.4% 11 Results. Table 3 shows that K-Forcing achieves the most favorable quality–NFE trade-off among the compared paradigms. MDLM already underperforms AR at the same 960 NFEs (65.17 vs. 42.64 Gen-PPL), and degrades sharply when unmasking two tokens per step (224.1 Gen-PPL at 480 NFEs), consistent with Theorem 1. Medusa and PTP preserve AR-level quality through speculative verification, but each iteration requires two full-size forward passes; Medusa ends up using 2 × 539 .3 ≈ 1079 NFEs— more than AR—while PTP reduces this to ≈678 by leveraging additional noise conditioning. In contrast, K-Forcing reduces NFE directly via a single causal forward pass: K-Forcing( k= 2) matches the 480-NFE budget of MDLM( k=2) with far better Gen-PPL and win rate, and K-Forcing( k= 4) further cuts NFE to 240 while achieving the lowest Gen-PPL of 24.97 and a 39.4% win rate. These results highlight the advantage of modeling joint multi-token samples with a push-forward mapping and progressive self-forcing distillation. Qualitative samples for each method are provided in Appendix D.3. 

# 5 Conclusion and Future Work 

We presented K-Forcing, which learns a push-forward mapping to jointly decode multiple tokens per forward pass. Our experiments confirm that K-Forcing achieves 2.4–3.5× batch-serving speedup while maintaining generation quality close to the AR teacher. As inference cost increasingly dominates modern language model deployments, we believe K-Forcing offers a promising direction for practical serving acceleration. At the same time, our current work should be viewed as an initial step toward a broader research direction for push-forward language models. While K-Forcing already attains favorable throughput–quality trade-offs, a non-trivial generation-quality gap to the AR teacher remains, especially at larger prediction windows k.

Closing this gap is the central challenge for scaling PFLM to larger models and more aggressive prediction windows. We highlight several concrete directions: 

• Custom kernels for self-forcing training. As discussed in Section 3.4, our current implementation incurs 

O(k2) training cost due to dense attention masks, although the theoretical cost is only O(k). Developing custom block-sparse attention kernels (see Appendix C.2) would close this gap and make self-forcing distillation practical at larger prediction windows and model scales. 

• Reproducible AR sampling for stable teacher supervision. The quality of the learned push-forward mapping depends on the consistency of the teacher supervision signal: identical context and noise vectors must produce identical target tokens across training iterations and batching configurations, or the student receives contradictory gradients. In practice, modern GPU kernels do not guarantee bitwise reproducibility— cuBLAS may select different internal algorithms depending on batch size (DeepSeek-AI, 2026), and attention kernels may use non-deterministic accumulation orders (He and Lab, 2025; DeepSeek-AI, 2026). Reducing such noise via batch-invariant GPU kernels and deterministic generation primitives is essential for scaling PFLM training. Recent batch-invariant kernel libraries from DeepSeek-V4 (DeepSeek-AI, 2026) offer a promising starting point. 

• Alternative training paradigms beyond K-Forcing. Whether progressive self-forcing is the most effective training strategy for PFLM remains an open question. We highlight two promising directions. First, the current progressive recipe requires multiple sequential stages, each involving expensive teacher forward passes to generate supervision; developing a single-stage distillation algorithm could substantially reduce the total training cost. More ambitiously, the current recipe relies entirely on a pretrained AR teacher. Whether it is possible to train a PFLM without a pretrained AR teacher—learning the push-forward mapping from scratch—remains an open research problem. We hope K-Forcing provides an initial demonstration that push-forward language modeling offers a viable path toward more efficient language-model inference. 

# References  

> Zachary Ankner, Rishab Parthasarathy, Aniruddha Nrusimha, Christopher Rinard, Jonathan Ragan-Kelley, and William Brandon. Hydra: Sequentially-dependent draft heads for medusa decoding. In First Conference on Language

12 Modeling , 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=FbhjirzvJG .Marianne Arriola, Subham Sekhar Sahoo, Aaron Gokaslan, Zhihan Yang, Zhixuan Qi, Jiaqi Han, Justin T Chiu, and Volodymyr Kuleshov. Block diffusion: Interpolating between autoregressive and diffusion language models. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id= tyEyYT267x .Jacob Austin, Daniel D Johnson, Jonathan Ho, Daniel Tarlow, and Rianne Van Den Berg. Structured denoising diffusion models in discrete state-spaces. Advances in neural information processing systems , 34:17981–17993, 2021. Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems , 33:1877–1901, 2020. Tianle Cai, Yuhong Li, Zhengyang Geng, Hongwu Peng, Jason D. Lee, Deming Chen, and Tri Dao. Medusa: Simple llm inference acceleration framework with multiple decoding heads. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML’24. JMLR.org, 2024. Ciprian Chelba, Tomas Mikolov, Mike Schuster, Qi Ge, Thorsten Brants, Phillipp Koehn, and Tony Robinson. One billion word benchmark for measuring progress in statistical language modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.3005 ,2013. Boyuan Chen, Diego Martí Monsó, Yilun Du, Max Simchowitz, Russ Tedrake, and Vincent Sitzmann. Diffusion forcing: Next-token prediction meets full-sequence diffusion. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,37:24081–24125, 2024. Charlie Chen, Sebastian Borgeaud, Geoffrey Irving, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Laurent Sifre, and John Jumper. Accelerating large language model decoding with speculative sampling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.01318 , 2023. Tri Dao. FlashAttention-2: Faster attention with better parallelism and work partitioning. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2024. Tri Dao, Daniel Y. Fu, Stefano Ermon, Atri Rudra, and Christopher Ré. FlashAttention: Fast and memory-efficient exact attention with IO-awareness. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 2022. DeepSeek-AI. Deepseek-v4: Towards highly efficient million-token context intelligence. 2026. URL https:// huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V4-Pro/blob/main/DeepSeek_V4.pdf .Gregoire Deletang, Anian Ruoss, Paul-Ambroise Duquenne, Elliot Catt, Tim Genewein, Christopher Mattern, Jordi Grau-Moya, Li Kevin Wenliang, Matthew Aitchison, Laurent Orseau, Marcus Hutter, and Joel Veness. Language modeling is compression. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024. URL 

https://openreview.net/forum?id=jznbgiynus .Felix Draxler, Justus Will, Farrin Marouf Sofian, Theofanis Karaletsos, Sameer Singh, and Stephan Mandt. Parallel token prediction for language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.21323 , 2025. Yichao Fu, Peter Bailis, Ion Stoica, and Hao Zhang. Break the sequential dependency of llm inference using lookahead decoding. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML’24. JMLR.org, 2024. Zhengyang Geng, Mingyang Deng, Xingjian Bai, J Zico Kolter, and Kaiming He. Mean flows for one-step generative modeling. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2025. URL https: //openreview.net/forum?id=uWj4s7rMnR .Fabian Gloeckle, Badr Youbi Idrissi, Baptiste Rozière, David Lopez-Paz, and Gabriel Synnaeve. Better & faster large language models via multi-token prediction. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML’24. JMLR.org, 2024. Aaron Gokaslan, Vanya Cohen, Ellie Pavlick, and Stefanie Tellex. Openwebtext corpus, 2019. Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial networks. Communications of the ACM , 63(11):139–144, 2020. Albert Gu and Tri Dao. Mamba: Linear-time sequence modeling with selective state spaces. In First conference on language modeling , 2024. Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Ruoyu Zhang, Shirong Ma, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948 , 2025. 

13 Horace He and Thinking Machines Lab. Defeating nondeterminism in llm inference. Thinking Machines Lab: Connectionism , 2025. doi: 10.64434/tml.20250910. https://thinkingmachines.ai/blog/defeating-nondeterminism-in-llm-inference/. Yefei He, Feng Chen, Yuanyu He, Shaoxuan He, Hong Zhou, Kaipeng Zhang, and Bohan Zhuang. ZipAR: Parallel autoregressive image generation through spatial locality. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=S09B5wNa6J .Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 33:6840–6851, 2020. Xun Huang, Zhengqi Li, Guande He, Mingyuan Zhou, and Eli Shechtman. Self forcing: Bridging the train-test gap in autoregressive video diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.08009 , 2025. Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276 , 2024. Haozhe Jiang, Nika Haghtalab, and Lijie Chen. Diffusion language models are provably optimal parallel samplers. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.25014 , 2025. Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06770 , 2023. Siqi Kou, Lanxiang Hu, Zhezhi He, Zhijie Deng, and Hao Zhang. Cllms: Consistency large language models. In 

Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning , 2024. Tanishq Kumar, Tri Dao, and Avner May. Speculative speculative decoding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.03251 , 2026. Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. Efficient memory management for large language model serving with pagedattention. In 

Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles , 2023. Xiang Li, John Thickstun, Ishaan Gulrajani, Percy S Liang, and Tatsunori B Hashimoto. Diffusion-lm improves controllable text generation. Advances in neural information processing systems , 35:4328–4343, 2022. Yuhui Li, Fangyun Wei, Chao Zhang, and Hongyang Zhang. Eagle: speculative sampling requires rethinking feature uncertainty. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML’24. JMLR.org, 2024. Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, et al. Deepseek-v3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.19437 , 2024. Xiaoxuan Liu, Jiaxiang Yu, Jongseok Park, Ion Stoica, and Alvin Cheung. Speculative decoding: Performance or illusion?, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.11580 .Aaron Lou, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Discrete diffusion modeling by estimating the ratios of the data distribution. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML’24. JMLR.org, 2024. Cheng Lu and Yang Song. Simplifying, stabilizing and scaling continuous-time consistency models. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024. Shen Nie, Fengqi Zhu, Zebin You, Xiaolu Zhang, Jingyang Ou, Jun Hu, JUN ZHOU, Yankai Lin, Ji-Rong Wen, and Chongxuan Li. Large language diffusion models. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=KnqiC0znVF .Gabriel Peyré and Marco Cuturi. Computational optimal transport: With applications to data science . Now Foundations and Trends, 2019. Yifan Pu, Yizeng Han, Zhiwei Tang, Jiasheng Tang, Fan Wang, Bohan Zhuang, and Gao Huang. Few-step distillation for text-to-image generation: A practical guide. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.13006 , 2025. Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan, Tim Salimans, Ilya Sutskever, et al. Improving language understanding by generative pre-training. 2018. Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, Ilya Sutskever, et al. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI blog , 1(8):9, 2019. Subham Sahoo, Marianne Arriola, Yair Schiff, Aaron Gokaslan, Edgar Marroquin, Justin Chiu, Alexander Rush, and Volodymyr Kuleshov. Simple and effective masked diffusion language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:130136–130184, 2024. 

14 Tim Salimans and Jonathan Ho. Progressive distillation for fast sampling of diffusion models. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2022. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=TIdIXIpzhoI .Mohammad Samragh, Arnav Kundu, David Harrison, Kumari Nishu, Devang Naik, Minsik Cho, and Mehrdad Fara-jtabar. Your llm knows the future: Uncovering its multi-token prediction potential. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.11851 ,2025. Andrea Santilli, Silvio Severino, Emilian Postolache, Valentino Maiorca, Michele Mancusi, Riccardo Marin, and Emanuele Rodola. Accelerating transformer inference for translation via parallel decoding. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 12336–12355, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023. acl-long.689 .Axel Sauer, Dominik Lorenz, Andreas Blattmann, and Robin Rombach. Adversarial diffusion distillation. In Computer Vision – ECCV 2024: 18th European Conference, Milan, Italy, September 29–October 4, 2024, Proceedings, Part LXXXVI , page 87–103, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2024. Springer-Verlag. ISBN 978-3-031-73015-3. doi: 10.1007/ 978-3-031-73016-0_6. URL https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-73016-0_6 .Chenze Shao, Darren Li, Fandong Meng, and Jie Zhou. Continuous autoregressive language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.27688 , 2025. Zhuoran Shen, Mingyuan Zhang, Haiyu Zhao, Shuai Yi, and Hongsheng Li. Efficient attention: Attention with linear complexities. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF winter conference on applications of computer vision , pages 3531–3539, 2021. Jiaming Song and Linqi Zhou. Ideas in inference-time scaling can benefit generative pre-training algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.07154 , 2025. Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma, Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and Ben Poole. Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2021. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS .Yang Song, Prafulla Dhariwal, Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever. Consistency models. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML’23. JMLR.org, 2023. Ziteng Sun, Ananda Theertha Suresh, Jae Hun Ro, Ahmad Beirami, Himanshu Jain, and Felix Yu. Spectr: Fast speculative decoding via optimal transport. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36:30222–30242, 2023. Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V Le. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. Advances in neural information processing systems , 27, 2014. Zhiwei Tang, Jiasheng Tang, Hao Luo, Fan Wang, and Tsung-Hui Chang. Accelerating parallel sampling of diffusion models. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning , 2024. Inferix Team, Tianyu Feng, Yizeng Han, Jiahao He, Yuanyu He, Xi Lin, Teng Liu, Hanfeng Lu, Jiasheng Tang, Wei Wang, et al. Inferix: A block-diffusion based next-generation inference engine for world simulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.20714 , 2025. Qwen Team. Qwen3.5: Accelerating productivity with native multimodal agents, February 2026. URL https: //qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.5 .Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural information processing systems , 30, 2017. Junxiong Wang, Daniele Paliotta, Avner May, Alexander M Rush, and Tri Dao. The mamba in the llama: Distilling and accelerating hybrid models. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems ,2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=uAzhODjALU .Xu Wang, Chenkai Xu, Yijie Jin, Jiachun Jin, Hao Zhang, and Zhijie Deng. Diffusion llms can do faster-than-ar inference via discrete diffusion forcing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.09192 , 2025. Ian H Witten, Radford M Neal, and John G Cleary. Arithmetic coding for data compression. Communications of the ACM , 30(6):520–540, 1987. Songlin Yang, Jan Kautz, and Ali Hatamizadeh. Gated delta networks: Improving mamba2 with delta rule. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id= r8H7xhYPwz .

15 Jiacheng Ye, Zhihui Xie, Lin Zheng, Jiahui Gao, Zirui Wu, Xin Jiang, Zhenguo Li, and Lingpeng Kong. Dream 7b: Diffusion large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.15487 , 2025a. Zihao Ye, Lequn Chen, Ruihang Lai, Wuwei Lin, Yineng Zhang, Stephanie Wang, Tianqi Chen, Baris Kasikci, Vinod Grover, Arvind Krishnamurthy, et al. Flashinfer: Efficient and customizable attention engine for llm inference serving. Proceedings of Machine Learning and Systems , 7, 2025b. Jingyang Yuan, Huazuo Gao, Damai Dai, Junyu Luo, Liang Zhao, Zhengyan Zhang, Zhenda Xie, Yuxing Wei, Lean Wang, Zhiping Xiao, et al. Native sparse attention: Hardware-aligned and natively trainable sparse attention. In 

Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,pages 23078–23097, 2025. Ranran Haoran Zhang, Soumik Dey, Ashirbad Mishra, Hansi Wu, Binbin Li, and Rui Zhang. Batch speculative decoding done right. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.22876 , 2025. Yinmin Zhong, Shengyu Liu, Junda Chen, Jianbo Hu, Yibo Zhu, Xuanzhe Liu, Xin Jin, and Hao Zhang. {DistServe }:Disaggregating prefill and decoding for goodput-optimized large language model serving. In 18th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 24) , pages 193–210, 2024. Hongzhou Zhu, Min Zhao, Guande He, Hang Su, Chongxuan Li, and Jun Zhu. Causal forcing: Autoregressive diffusion distillation done right for high-quality real-time interactive video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.02214 , 2026. 

# A Proof of Theorem 1 

We prove Theorem 1 from the main text. 

Proof. The proof proceeds as follows. We first derive the closed-form optimal solution of the MDLM objective and show that it recovers the Bayes-optimal per-position marginal. We then show that independent multi-token sampling from this optimal predictor necessarily distorts the joint distribution, and finally derive the NFE lower bound. 

Step 1: Closed-form for optimal solution of the MDLMs. Consider a partially masked sequence xt in which the set of unmasked positions is U ⊆ { 1, . . . , L }, revealing tokens (xi)i∈U , and the complementary set 

M = {1, . . . , L } \ U of M = |M| positions are masked. We show that the MDLM training objective (1) admits a closed-form minimizer that equals the Bayes-optimal marginal at each masked position. Since the 1/t factor and the indicator 1[xit = M] are non-negative and do not depend on θ, the objective decomposes into independent per-position problems. For each masked position 

j ∈ M , the relevant term is: 

Lj (θ) = −Ex0,x t

h

1[xjt = M] log pθ (xj 

> 0

| xt)

i

. (4) Conditioning on xt (with position j masked), this reduces to minimizing the cross-entropy between the true conditional distribution p(xj 

> 0

| xt) and the model’s prediction pθ (xj 

> 0

| xt):

Lj (θ) = −Ext

"

1[xjt = M] X

> v∈V

p(xj 

> 0

= v | xt) log pθ (xj 

> 0

= v | xt)

#

. (5) By Gibbs’ inequality, for each xt this cross-entropy is minimized if and only if pθ (xj 

> 0

| xt) = p(xj 

> 0

| xt). Since position j is masked, the clean token xj 

> 0

is conditionally independent of the other masked tokens’ identities given xt; the true conditional is obtained by marginalizing over all other masked positions: 

p∗(xj | xt) = p(xj | xU ) = X

> xM\{ j}

p(xM | xU ). (6) Crucially, because the objective decomposes across positions, the optimal predictor at each position j recovers only the marginal distribution p(xj | xU ), not the joint distribution p(xM | xU ) over all masked positions. 

Step 2: Independent sampling distorts the joint distribution. Suppose that at some denoising steps, K > 1

masked positions {j1, . . . , j K } ⊆ M are selected for simultaneous unmasking. The MDLM inference procedure 16 samples each of these positions independently from its Bayes-optimal marginal, producing a joint sampling distribution: 

q(xj1 , . . . , x jK | xt) = 

> K

Y

> ℓ=1

p∗(xjℓ | xt) = 

> K

Y

> ℓ=1

p(xjℓ | xU ). (7) The true conditional joint distribution over these K positions is: 

p(xj1 , . . . , x jK | xU ) = X 

> xM\{ j1,...,j K}

p(xM | xU ). (8) By the conditional irreducibility assumption, for any subset S with |S| ≥ 2 and any nontrivial partition 

S = S1 ⊔ S2, there exists an assignment x ¯S such that p(xS | x ¯S )̸ = p(xS1 | x ¯S ) p(xS2 | x ¯S ). Setting 

S = {j1, . . . , j K } and choosing the partition and the conditioning assignment guaranteed by the assumption, we obtain: 

p(xj1 , . . . , x jK | xU )̸ =

> K

Y

> ℓ=1

p(xjℓ | xU ) (9) for at least one realization of xU in the support of p. Therefore: 

q(xj1 , . . . , x jK | xt)̸ = p(xj1 , . . . , x jK | xU ), (10) which means the distribution induced by independent sampling does not equal the true joint. In particular, the independent sampling distribution q may assign positive probability to token combinations (xj1 , . . . , x jK )

that have zero probability under p(· | xU ), producing sequences outside the support of p. 

> Step 3: NFE lower bound.

Since simultaneously unmasking K > 1 tokens at any step introduces distributional error, the only strategy that guarantees the generated distribution equals p exactly is to unmask exactly one token per step. Generating a sequence of length L therefore requires at least L NFEs, matching the autoregressive baseline.  

> Illustrative example.

We provide a concrete instance of Theorem 1 with the smallest nontrivial case, using the uniform distribution over permutations. 

Example 1. Let N = 2 and V = {0, 1}. The data distribution p is uniform over S2 = {[0 , 1] , [1 , 0] }. This distribution is conditionally irreducible: the two positions are dependent (knowing one determines the other). Starting from the fully masked sequence [m, m], the Bayes-optimal predictor assigns: 

p∗(x1 | [m, m]) = Uniform( {0, 1}), (11) 

p∗(x2 | [m, m]) = Uniform( {0, 1}). (12) Sampling both positions independently yields:   

> Output Probability Valid?

[0 , 0] 25% ×

[0 , 1] 25% ✓

[1 , 0] 25% ✓

[1 , 1] 25% ×

The invalid-sequence probability is 50% , confirming that independent sampling from per-position marginals fails to capture the joint distribution. The true distribution assigns 50% to each of [0 , 1] and [1 , 0] , and 0% to 

[0 , 0] and [1 , 1] .In contrast, a two-step procedure—unmask one token, then unmask the other conditioned on the first— produces only valid permutations. After observing x1 = 0 , the predictor correctly assigns p∗(x2 | [0 , m]) = δ1,and vice versa. This sequential procedure requires N = 2 NFEs, matching the AR baseline. 17 B Existence of the Push-Forward Mapping 

We show that for any data distribution p over V∗ and any prediction window k ≥ 1, a closed-form push-forward mapping G⋆ : V∗ × [0 , 1] k → V k can be constructed from an AR oracle that computes the conditional distributions qAR (xt+j | x≤t+j−1) for j = 1 , . . . , k .

Construction. Fix a context x≤t and impose an arbitrary fixed ordering on the vocabulary V = {w1, . . . , w |V| }.For each step j = 1 , . . . , k , define the CDF 

FAR (wℓ | x≤t+j−1) = 

> ℓ

X

> m=1

qAR (xt+j = wm | x≤t+j−1), ℓ = 1 , . . . , |V| , (13) with the convention FAR (w0 | · ) = 0 , and the corresponding inverse-CDF map 

F −1AR (z | x≤t+j−1) = wℓ, (14) where ℓ = min m ∈ { 1, . . . , |V|} : FAR (wm | x≤t+j−1) > z .

It is a standard result that if z ∼ Uniform(0 , 1) , then F −1AR (z | x≤t+j−1) ∼ qAR (· | x≤t+j−1).Given z = ( z1, . . . , z k) ∼ Uniform([0 , 1] k), we define G⋆ recursively: 

ˆxt+1 = F −1AR (z1 | x≤t),

ˆxt+2 = F −1AR (z2 | x≤t, ˆxt+1 ),

...

ˆxt+k = F −1AR (zk | x≤t, ˆxt+1 , . . . , ˆxt+k−1). (15) Note that this is precisely the unrolled form of (2) in the main text. 

Correctness. By the chain rule and the mutual independence of z1, . . . , z k:

Pr G⋆(x≤t, z) = ( v1, . . . , v k)

=

> k

Y

> j=1

Pr ˆxt+j = vj | ˆxt+1 = v1, . . . , ˆxt+j−1 = vj−1



=

> k

Y

> j=1

qAR (xt+j = vj | x≤t, v 1, . . . , v j−1)= p(xt+1 = v1, . . . , x t+k = vk | x≤t), (16) where the second equality uses the fact that each F −1AR (zj | · ) with zj ∼ Uniform (0 , 1) produces a sample from the corresponding AR conditional. Since the context x≤t was arbitrary, G⋆ exactly reproduces the data distribution. 

Illustrative example. Consider k=2, V = {A, B, C }, and an AR model whose support is {[A, B ], [B, A ], [B, C ]}

with qAR (A | sos ) = 13 , qAR (B | sos ) = 23 , qAR (B | A) = 1 , qAR (A | B) = 12 , qAR (C | B) = 12 . Applying the construction above, we draw z1 ∼ Uniform(0 , 1) and select the first token via the inverse CDF: 

ˆxt+1 =

(

A if z1 ∈ [0 , 13 ),B if z1 ∈ [ 13 , 1] .

Then, conditioned on ˆxt+1 , we draw z2 ∼ Uniform (0 , 1) and select ˆxt+2 similarly. Composing these two steps yields a deterministic map (z1, z 2) 7 → (ˆ xt+1 , ˆxt+2 ) that partitions the unit square [0 , 1] 2 into three regions: 

G⋆(x≤t, z 1, z 2) = 



[A, B ] if z1 ∈ [0 , 13 ), z 2 ∈ [0 , 1] ,

[B, A ] if z1 ∈ [ 13 , 1] , z 2 ∈ [0 , 12 ),

[B, C ] if z1 ∈ [ 13 , 1] , z 2 ∈ [ 12 , 1] .

(17) 18 Algorithm 1 K-Forcing Inference with KV Cache  

> Require:

Prompt tokens x1: N , prediction window k, generation length T , noise encoder NoiseEnc , Transformer 

TF , output head Head  

> Ensure:

Generated token sequence ˆx1: T 

> 1:

Initialize KV cache C ← ∅ ; ˆx ← [ ]  

> 2:

hx ← Embed (x1: N )  

> 3: for

s = 0 , k, 2k, . . . while s < T do  

> 4:

Sample noise z ∼ Uniform(0 , 1) k; hz ← NoiseEnc (z) 

> 5:

h ← [hx; hz ] 

> 6:

o, [Cx, Cz ] ← TF (h, C) ▷ Cx, Cz : KV entries for context and noise tokens  

> 7:

C ← [C; Cx] ▷ Retain only context KV; discard Cz 

> 8:

(ˆ xs+1 , . . . , ˆxs+k) ← arg max Head (o−k:) 

> 9:

Append (ˆ xs+1 , . . . , ˆxs+k) to ˆx 

> 10:

hx ← Embed (ˆ xs+1 , . . . , ˆxs+k) 

> 11: end for

One can verify that the induced probabilities match the joint: 

Pr[( A, B )] = 13 , Pr[( B, A )] = 13 , Pr[( B, C )] = 13 .

This confirms that AR decoding is itself a push-forward mapping—one that requires k sequential forward passes because zj ’s mapping depends on the tokens produced by z1, . . . , z j−1. PFLM aims to learn a neural network Gθ that collapses these k sequential passes into a single forward pass. 

# C Implementation Details 

C.1 KV-Cached Inference for K-Forcing 

Algorithm 1 presents K-Forcing inference with KV-cache. The procedure mirrors standard autoregressive KV-cache decoding, with one key modification: at each step, k noise tokens are appended to the input so that the model predicts k output tokens at once instead of one. The cache management follows a simple rule: after each step, only the KV entries of the generated context 

tokens (i.e., the real predictions that future steps will attend to) are appended to the cache, while the KV entries of the noise tokens are discarded. This is sound because noise tokens are resampled independently at every step; their KV states are needed only for the current step’s attention and are meaningless thereafter. Concretely, the first step processes the full prompt together with the initial noise tokens (prefill). Every subsequent step feeds only 2k new tokens into the Transformer— k previously generated tokens plus k fresh noise tokens—while the cached KV states provide attention over the full history (decode). The per-step cost therefore scales with 2k rather than the cumulative sequence length, matching the asymptotic complexity of standard autoregressive decoding while producing k tokens per step.  

> Continuous batching compatibility.

Because every request produces exactly k tokens per decoding step, all requests in a batch remain synchronized in position indices and KV-cache lengths. This fixed-stride output structure is naturally compatible with continuous batching schedulers: new requests can be inserted at any step boundary without cross-request realignment or padding, unlike speculative decoding where variable acceptance lengths desynchronize the batch (Section 2.1). 

C.2 Training: Pseudocode, Attention Masks, and Cost Analysis 

We present the complete training procedure for both distillation stages, incorporating temperature control. Each algorithm references two forward functions— SingleForward and DoubleForward —whose attention masks we define afterwards. We then analyze training cost and discuss directions for efficient kernel implementations. 19 Algorithm 2 K-Forcing Stage 1: Forward Distillation (AR → PFLM( k=1 ))  

> Require:

AR teacher (frozen), PFLM student with k=1 (trainable)  

> Require:

Training corpus D, temperature range [τmin , τ max ]  

> 1: for

each batch x ∈ D do  

> 2:

B, N ← shape (x); Np ← N − 1; c ← x:, 1: Np 

> 3:

Sample τ ∼ Uniform( τmin , τ max ) per sample; z ∼ Uniform(0 , 1) B×Np×1 

> 4:

// Teacher: AR causal forward pass with temperature scaling  

> 5:

p ← softmax  AR (c) / τ  ▷ τ sharpens/flattens teacher distribution  

> 6:

targets ← Inverse -CDF( p, z) ▷ (B, N p, 1)  

> 7:

// Student: SingleForward , τ -conditioned  

> 8:

logits ← SingleForward Student (c, z, τ ) ▷ Noise encoder receives both z and τ 

> 9:

L ← CrossEntropy (logits , targets ) 

> 10:

Update Student via ∇L  

> 11: end for

Algorithm 3 K-Forcing Stage 2: Self-Forcing Distillation (PFLM( k) → PFLM( 2k))  

> Require:

Teacher PFLM with window k (frozen), Student PFLM with window 2k (trainable)  

> Require:

Training corpus D, temperature range [τmin , τ max ]  

> 1: for

each batch x ∈ D do  

> 2:

B, N ← shape (x); Np ← N − 2k; c ← x:, 1: Np 

> 3:

Sample τ ∼ Uniform( τmin , τ max ) per sample; z ∼ Uniform(0 , 1) B×Np×2k 

> 4:

z1, z2 ← split (z, k, dim = 2)  

> 5:

// Teacher round 1: SingleForward  

> 6:

ˆx1 ← arg max SingleForward Teacher (c, z1, τ ); save KV cache C 

> 7:

// Teacher round 2: DoubleForward , conditioned on ˆx1 

> 8:

ˆx2 ← arg max DoubleForward Teacher (C, ˆx1, z2, τ ) 

> 9:

targets ← [ˆ x1; ˆ x2] ▷ (B, N p, 2k) 

> 10:

// Student: SingleForward with window 2k 

> 11:

logits ← SingleForward Student (c, z, τ ) ▷ Same τ as teacher, no rescaling  

> 12:

L ← 12k

P2kj=1 CrossEntropy  logits :,:,j, :, targets :,:,j 

 

> 13:

Update Student via ∇L   

> 14: end for Stage 1: forward distillation (AR

→ PFLM( k=1)). Algorithm 2 bootstraps a PFLM with k= 1 from an AR teacher. For each context position, a uniform noise z is mapped through the teacher’s temperature-scaled inverse-CDF sampler to produce a target token. A per-sample temperature τ is drawn uniformly and used to scale the teacher’s logits by 1/τ before softmax, controlling the sharpness of the target distribution. The student’s noise encoder receives τ as an additional input alongside z, learning to associate different τ values with different output diversity levels. The AR teacher performs a standard causal forward pass to produce per-position logit distributions. The 

student uses SingleForward (defined below) with k=1 .

> Stage 2: self-forcing distillation (PFLM(

k) → PFLM( 2k)). Algorithm 3 doubles the prediction window. The teacher performs two rounds of prediction—the first generates k tokens via SingleForward , the second conditions on those predictions to generate the next k via DoubleForward —while the student learns to produce all 2k tokens in one SingleForward pass with window size 2k. Since the teacher is itself τ -conditioned from Stage 1, the same sampled τ is passed identically to both teacher and student without any logit rescaling.  

> Temperature control at inference.

At inference time, the user specifies a desired τ : the noise encoder receives τ

alongside the sampled z, and low τ yields near-greedy outputs while high τ produces diverse samples. No retraining or model modification is required.  

> SingleForward: attention mask.

Both the student’s forward pass and the teacher’s first-round forward pass invoke SingleForward . It takes N context tokens and N k noise tokens ( k per context position), totalling 20 N + N k tokens, and produces k output tokens per position in a single attention call. Rather than running 

N independent forward passes, all positions are batched into one call governed by the attention mask 

MS ∈ { 0, 1}(N +N k )×(N +N k ), which consists of three blocks: 1. Context → Context (upper-left N × N ): standard causal (lower-triangular). 2. Noise → Context (lower-left N k × N ): the noise group at context position t attends to context tokens 

x1, . . . , x t, producing a characteristic staircase pattern. 3. Noise → Noise (lower-right N k ×N k ): block-diagonal causal—tokens within each group of k attend causally to one another but cannot attend to tokens from other groups.  

> DoubleForward: attention mask.

The teacher’s second-round forward pass in Algorithm 3 invokes DoubleForward ,which extends SingleForward to condition on a first round of predictions when generating a second round. We fuse both rounds into a single attention call using the attention mask MD ∈ { 0, 1}2N k ×(N +2 N k ).The input sequence is organized into three blocks: Context (N real prefix tokens), Future-1 (N k token embeddings of the first-round predictions ˆx1, which serve as extended context for the second round), and 

Future-2 (N k fresh noise tokens for z2, from which the second round of k tokens per position is decoded). The queries consist of Future-1 and Future-2; they attend to keys from all three blocks. The mask extends 

MS as follows: 1. Future-1 → Context / Future-1 : identical to the SingleForward mask MS.2. Future-2 → Context : same staircase pattern as Future-1 → Context. 3. Future-2 → Future-1 : full visibility within the same window (each Future-2 token sees all k Future-1 tokens from its window, since these form the extended context). 4. Future-2 → Future-2 : block-diagonal causal within each window. This reproduces two sequential teacher passes in a single fused attention call, enabling KV reuse for the shared context block.  

> Theoretical training cost.

We analyze the attention cost of SingleForward and DoubleForward by counting the total number of attended (query, key) pairs, i.e., the number of non-zero entries in each attention mask. For SingleForward with window k:

|MS| = N (N +1) 2

| {z }

> ctx →ctx

+ kN (N +1) 2

| {z }

> noise →ctx

+ N · k(k+1) 2

| {z }

> noise →noise

. (18) The first term is the standard causal AR attention cost. The second term accounts for each of the k noise tokens per position attending to the same causal context prefix. The third term covers the intra-window causal attention among the k noise tokens at each of the N positions. Relative to the AR cost of N (N +1) 2 , the ratio is k for N ≫ k.For DoubleForward , the KV cache from the preceding SingleForward (covering the context and Future-1 tokens) is reused, so only the N k Future-2 query tokens require new attention computation: 

|MD| = kN (N +1) 2

| {z }

> F2 →ctx

+ N k 2

|{z} 

> F2 →F1

+ N · k(k+1) 2

| {z }

> F2 →F2

. (19) The first term is the Future-2 → Context staircase attention. The second term accounts for each of the k

Future-2 tokens attending to all k Future-1 tokens within its window (full visibility, since Future-1 tokens form the extended context). The third term covers the intra-window causal attention among Future-2 tokens. The ratio to AR cost is also k for N ≫ k.In self-forcing distillation (Stage 2), each training step requires one teacher SingleForward , one teacher 

> DoubleForward

, and one student SingleForward . Both masks have O(k) overhead relative to standard AR attention for N ≫ k, so the total training cost scales as O(k) relative to AR. 21 Table 4 Model architecture and training hyperparameters.  

> Hyperparameter Value

Transformer backbone ∼124M (OWT) / ∼108M (LM1B) Architecture Decoder-only Transformer Layers 12 Hidden size 768 Attention heads 12 MLP hidden size 3072 Normalization RMSNorm (pre-norm) Positional encoding RoPE with drot = 64 

Dropout 0.0 Vocabulary size (OWT / LM1B) 50,258 / 30,522 

Noise encoder ∼5.9M Noise & temperature embedding Sinusoidal positional encoding ( d = 768 )MLP Two-layer MLP with GELU activation 

Training 

Sequence length (LM1B / OWT) 128 / 1,024 Global batch size 512 Optimizer AdamW ( β1=0 .9, β2=0 .999 , ϵ=10 −6)Learning rate 1 × 10 −4

Weight decay 0LR schedule Constant Gradient clipping 1.0 Total training steps (per stage) 500,000 EMA decay 0.999 

However, our current implementation does not yet exploit this sparsity : we pass MS and MD directly as a dense mask to the FlashAttention kernel, which treats the full (N +N k ) × (N +N k ) matrix as unstructured and therefore incurs O(k2) overhead in practice.  

> Towards efficient kernels.

Closing the gap between our current O(k2) implementation cost and the theoretical 

O(k) bound requires custom kernels that decompose the attention into block-sparse tiles matching the mask structure. In principle, each noise group’s attention factorizes into two standard calls—one variable-length prefix attention over the context and one fixed-size causal attention within the window—each of which is natively supported by FlashAttention (Dao et al., 2022). However, orchestrating this decomposition efficiently at scale involves non-trivial engineering challenges: (i) dispatching variable-length prefix attention across N

groups whose prefix lengths range from 1 to N , without excessive padding or GPU load imbalance; (ii) fusing the prefix and intra-window kernels to amortize kernel-launch overhead; (iii) handling the DoubleForward mask, whose cross-stream (Future-2 → Future-1) full-visibility blocks do not fit standard causal or sliding-window templates; and (iv) integrating with paged KV-cache managers for inference. We view this as an important direction for future work: the mask structures defined here are fully specified and highly regular, and we hope they provide a concrete target for community exploration of efficient parallel decoding kernels. 

# D Experiment Details 

D.1 Training Configuration 

Our codebase is built upon the MDLM open-source repository (Sahoo et al., 2024), and we adopt the same tokenizer, sequence lengths, model backbone, and data preprocessing. Table 4 summarizes the model architecture and training hyperparameters. The progressive distillation proceeds as follows, with all weights trainable at every stage: 22 1. Stage 0 (AR teacher). For OWT, we use the existing AR checkpoint released by (Sahoo et al., 2024). Since no public checkpoint is available for LM1B, we train our own AR teacher for 500K steps with a global batch size of 512. 2. Stage 1. Distill AR → PFLM( k=1) using Algorithm 2 for 500K steps with a global batch size of 512, using the AR teacher from Stage 0. The student backbone is initialized from the AR teacher checkpoint; only the noise encoder is newly introduced and randomly initialized. 3. Stage 2. Distill PFLM( k=1) → PFLM( k= 2) using Algorithm 3 for 500K steps with a global batch size of 512. The Stage-1 PFLM( k=1 ) serves as the teacher, and the student is fully initialized from it. 4. Stage 3. Distill PFLM( k=2) → PFLM( k= 4) using Algorithm 3 for 500K steps with a global batch size of 512. The Stage-2 PFLM( k=2 ) serves as the teacher, and the student is fully initialized from it.  

> Precision schedule.

The AR teacher (Stage 0) is trained with BF16 mixed precision. For Stages 1, 2, and 3, the first 400K steps use FP16 mixed precision, as we found it provides higher numerical precision than BF16 for this task; the final 100K steps switch to full FP32 training to further reduce residual numerical noise in the learned push-forward mapping. 

D.2 Evaluation Protocol  

> Generative perplexity (Gen-PPL).

Each generated completion is truncated at the first end-of-sequence token, stripped of special tokens, and scored by a GPT-2-Large evaluator (Radford et al., 2019). For LM1B, outputs are re-tokenized with the GPT-2 tokenizer before scoring. We report the corpus-level perplexity (exponential of the token-weighted mean negative log-likelihood).  

> LLM-as-a-Judge.

We use a locally-served Qwen3.5-27B model (Team, 2026) as the judge for reproducibility. For each prefix, we present the AR and K-Forcing completions (both truncated at the first end-of-sequence token) in randomized A/B order to mitigate position bias, and ask the judge to select the better completion. The judge is forced to choose one option (no ties). The prompt template is shown in Figure 4.      

> Judge Prompt Template
> You are an impartial judge evaluating the quality of two text completions. Given a prefix, you will see two completions: Completion A and Completion B. Your task is to determine which completion is better in terms of coherence, fluency, and naturalness. Rules: - You MUST choose one. No ties allowed. - If both are equally good, pick the one that sounds slightly more natural. - Output ONLY a single letter: either “A” or “B”. Prefix: {prefix} Completion A: {completion_a} Completion B: {completion_b} Your answer (A or B):
> Figure 4 Prompt template for LLM-as-a-Judge pairwise evaluation.

D.3 Qualitative Examples 

We present representative completions from each method on three OWT prefixes in Figures 5–7. All completions are generated from the same 64-token prefix and truncated at the first end-of-sequence token. Overall, generation quality degrades gracefully with increasing prediction horizon: AR produces the most fluent text, followed by K-Forcing with k = 2 , which remains coherent and natural; K-Forcing with k = 3 

introduces occasional grammatical errors; and K-Forcing with k = 4 shows further degradation yet stays substantially above the baselines. The PTP draft model ( k = 4 , without verification) exhibits moderate to severe repetition and broken syntax, while MDLM ( k = 2 ) produces the least coherent output, with frequent incoherence and nonsensical fragments. 23 Sample 1 — Prefix: Jim Lawlor: Zack played a lot of games, including none of the famous ones. He is still moving on, I was concerned about him last year when Eric Decker fell to Jacksonville. The play calls were different than he normally does, so I am hoping he can get back on the right 

> AR

path or develop into a pro. On Bryce Pettys struggles: Rookie QB Jack Conklin was for some reason given the ball pretty infrequently last season and I wanted to see him succeed, but dont expect anything to come of that. He is a good quarterback with a lot of upside, so dont expect to see a great gam... 

> MDLM (

k=2 )

path. This Is this as fun as a Clown. or any highly recognized class of Clown, while playing Clown is a dangerous position. Nicolas Bogg, a former defender thinks, ¨People take Clown play awaywith their football when MisteruthorizeSymone. All of us do so in our own sets. Everyone,SocSoc in Clown are... 

> PTP draft (

k=4 , no verification) 

path again. He He is coming on the injury of now. He played’t a lot of the butts. He was a good player last year. I’m sure he is see his he back. I have going a long bit., Jim Law is a guy that. and did have a guy come year the played well games and last year. I was concerned that him he is coming. ... 

> K-Forcing (

k=2 )

path and start making plays rather quickly this year. Tyreke Evans: I love Zac Stacy, I really do, he’s a special running back out of Missouri. Maybe not everyone wants Hands Per Catch, but I have no problem with him posting Great Plays When the Shots Are High in Zone Plays and I think he is going t.. 

> K-Forcing (

k=3 )

path. He will been a good mentor last year, and I would hope he can be able to be the same in JAX: What did you see coming from Ezekiel in college? What did you see in his first year in JAX: I would hope he can continue to develop while the NFL is still and hopefully. Jim Lawlor: I hope he can. JAX:... 

> K-Forcing (

k=4 )

path. Hopefully has some a chance of making a difference, but he is not going to compete. Andy:: Why you the Chiefs? Jim Lawlor: Because I love. I like always playing a team. I I like like Chiefs fans. They are great loyal fans and I am to helps them. Kansas City fans been great since I was been kid... 

Figure 5 Qualitative comparison on OWT prefix 1. The blue box shows the shared input prefix; the gray boxes show completions from each method, truncated at the first end-of-sequence token. All special tokens are removed and texts are truncated to 300 characters for readability. 

Sample 2 — Prefix: Hetman pointed the finger of blame for the condition at the root of the long-running conflict: the ever-collapsing war machine. The weapons used in Afghanistan and Iraq are all derived from U.S. and British mass-produced weapons and software, not from 

> AR

Afghan insurgent efforts. The original motive was to destroy the last vestige of the Taliban Khalizis sub-ethnic Amu Darya, a tribal front largely untested in Iraq. The war on terror, Hetman warned, had produced a permanent parallel to which further escalation and global instability have now become ... 

> MDLM (

k=2 )

their true source, the former SovietS and nations of NATO An acronym for the to meagre weapons which dut overdo neg-atively under the entire fallacy is the toil ofFFLR incidentsels, domestic, foreign weapons fighters, etc., Terrorism is done in our name, not by our providers and by the. mutually- con... 

> PTP draft (

k=4 , no verification) 

the original States. The weapons has is a deliberate of of cre-ating warfare against and destroying Afghans anddespitetheir the people. According, etCIA, the weapons used has a direct of of destruction Afghanistan ands. and. Afghans andthe people are killed killed by Afghan bombs and the weapons bomb... 

> K-Forcing (

k=2 )

anywhere else in the world. Many of the weapons of mass destruction used in Iraq are the same ones used to manufacture bullets for the military-industrial confab at Fort Hood, Texas, where soldiers shot and killed 19 civilians before breaking down the door. Authorities and lawmakers allege these wea... 

> K-Forcing (

k=3 )

the people who live there work hard. ethem.com/d/2014/05/al/Af-ghanghanistanwarmachine But the U.S. and the British are also involved in the war, according to the UN, which means that the Uinternational, humanitarian, and human rights organizations are also at the center of this conflict. Since the ... 

> K-Forcing (

k=4 )

the Afghan of tomorrow. The war needs to stop, he said. Nobody has a chance to rebuild it. is no one in the world States what we want to rebuild? We want America rebuild? America is the only one who can stop the Taliban, the only whose destiny are going to be determined by the outcome of the Afghan ... 

Figure 6 Qualitative comparison on OWT prefix 2. The setting is the same as Figure 5 

24 Sample 3 — Prefix: Make sure to eat your fix. Extra inclusivity: Under Jewish national holiday Saturdays, like that of the Thanksgiving holiday, go to the city block of West 87th Street right in your youth. There, there is a lightsabers. They make your 16-year-old boy into 

> AR

a proper Jedi! Keep an eye on 8-11th Ave. for more lightsabers. Local conventions: Coming to Temple 5, which will be hosting sponsors and dignitaries for New York Comic Con, will have ofas well astreasure hunts and legendary vacations for the real-life stars of Shrek and fangirls of SoHo. There will... 

> MDLM (

k=2 )

a man- then in middle school. Point is, you can’t imagine what the lady in case the Soviet army would look like in a week’s task- But take much care your entire may. Someone from their family needs you some nuts and bolts. In grand Alaska-like, you can never it matters 50 years. New Don Van Dynek wa... 

> PTP draft (

k=4 , no verification) 

an adult.. Bonus inclusivity: The West Jewish of a certain, neighborhood neighborhood is a blessing. Jews you neigh-borhood neighborhood are a blessing. Jews neighborhoods neighborhood neighborhood neighborhood are Jews. Bonus inclusivity: The synagogue of neighborhood neighborhood neighborhood neigh... 

> K-Forcing (

k=2 )

a real-life ¨The Badeder. ¨Let’s not do that to God. Wins are taken: Make everything right in your place and what’s right for you. May your loins shine: Youll have a bird in bed if you work hard. Friendship from the street: Build up a good friendship first and then move forward. Love doesn’t come fr... 

> K-Forcing (

k=3 )

a superhero! making him a superhero. Keep in mind with your of the city block, you is not allowed to walk around the block naked. Do yourself to rabbi and walk a bit. Also in a block of West 87th Street, near the subway of West York Avenue, you can find the rabbi of the Orthodox Jewish, or synagogue... 

> K-Forcing (

k=4 )

a soldier. So celebrate him with some, or not, because. You know, too much. So brunch, you know, too much. Then brunchs over, because brunchs over. And then youve had a lot of. And then brunch brunch, and And brunch brunch brunch. Because brunch is brunch. And if brunch is brunch brunch brunch, And ... 

Figure 7 Qualitative comparison on OWT prefix 3. The setting is the same as Figure 5 

Prefix: mortgage bankers association chief economist 

τ = 0 .01  

> Draw 1:

lawrence yun said the rate of foreclosure filings in the united states has slowed in recent months.  

> Draw 2:

lawrence yun said the rate of foreclosure filings in the united states has slowed in recent months.  

> Draw 3:

lawrence yun said the rate of foreclosure filings in the united states has slowed in recent months.  

> Draw 4:

lawrence yun said the rate of foreclosure filings in the united states has slowed in recent months. 

τ = 0 .3 

> Draw 1:

lawrence yun said the housing market has been ¨ very weak ¨ since the summer, but he expects the market to improve in the coming months.  

> Draw 2:

lawrence yun said the rate of foreclosure filings in the united states jumped in february to a record high.  

> Draw 3:

david blitzer said he expects the rate to remain at its current level of 5. 25 percent through the end of the year.  

> Draw 4:

lawrence yun said the rate of home foreclosures has dropped to a record low. 

τ = 0 .7 

> Draw 1:

lawrence yun said the rate cut was an important step in the fed ’ s efforts to ease the mortgage crisis.  

> Draw 2:

lawrence yun said the bank of america ( boa ) program has helped to keep homeowners in the market.  

> Draw 3:

doug duncan said the increase in activity was driven by a weak dollar, the need for home buyers to take advantage of lower prices and a recent jump in mortgage rates.  

> Draw 4:

lawrence yun said that the 1 percent rise in january ’ s home sales pushed home sales up to the highest level in two years. 

τ = 1 .0 

> Draw 1:

lawrence yun says cancellation rates remain at a 17 -year low.  

> Draw 2:

mark zandi, with whom fannie and freddie are often credited, said the nation ’ s homeowners remain unsettled by tightening credit and falling home values.  

> Draw 3:

lawrence yun is predicting that 1. 8 million homeown-ers will fall into foreclosure by the end of october.  

> Draw 4:

jason giambi thinks that perhaps according to the full mortgage rate quotes from some economists may be too high, while banking executives are hoping for a rate hike. 

Figure 8 Temperature-controlled generation with K-Forcing( k= 1) on a held-out LM1B prefix. Each box shows four independent draws (different random noise z) at a fixed temperature. 

25 D.4 Temperature-Controlled Generation 

We present a preliminary qualitative experiment demonstrating that K-Forcing supports effective temperature control at inference time without retraining.  

> Setup.

For simplicity, we conduct this experiment only on LM1B with k= 1. We train a temperature-conditioned K-Forcing( k= 1) model from the AR teacher using Algorithm 2, following the same recipe as in Appendix D.1. The only difference is the temperature conditioning: at each training iteration, a temperature 

τ is sampled uniformly from [0 .01 , 1.0] independently for each sample in the mini-batch. The sampled τ is used both to scale the teacher logits (i.e., the teacher samples from softmax (l/τ )) and to condition the noise encoder, as described in Section 3.4.  

> Example behavior.

As an example, we take one held-out LM1B prefix and generate four independent completions (with different random noise draws) at each of four fixed temperatures τ ∈ { 0.01 , 0.3, 0.7, 1.0} using the trained K-Forcing( k= 1) checkpoint; results are shown in Figure 8. At low temperatures, all four draws produce nearly identical outputs, reflecting near-deterministic behavior. As τ increases, the draws diverge progressively, yielding more diverse and creative—but occasionally less coherent—completions. This behavior is qualitatively consistent with temperature scaling in standard AR sampling, suggesting that the push-forward mapping successfully learns to modulate output diversity in response to the temperature conditioning signal. We emphasize that this is a non-rigorous qualitative demonstration; a systematic study of temperature calibration (e.g., verifying that the entropy of K-Forcing samples matches that of the AR teacher at each τ ) is left for future work. 26